
When deciding to expose Blue Prism web services for consumption by external systems there are a number of design considerations that should be reviewed to ensure that the approach both meets the intended requirement, and aligns with the capabilities of the Blue Prism platform. 

Synchronous vs Asynchronous Processing If there is a requirement for requests to be fully serviced immediately upon receipt, it should be considered that the nature of processes often require interaction with various other systems and potentially complex rules and decision to be applied. This can result in the receiving Resource being busy for relatively long periods of time and, except for in a small number of scenarios, unable to accept additional requests during this period. Due to the process complexity there may be significant merits to the overall solution if the processing can be handed-off to a “team” of Blue Prism Runtime Resources for asynchronous processing. This approach provides improved demand management by working items in order, as capacity becomes available. Additionally asynchronous processing can better leverage functionality provided by the platform such as message queuing, exception handling and reacting to variance in network and application performance. 

Processing Volumes The pattern and volume of processing requests will also affect the design of the web service interface particularly if there is a requirement for concurrent requests to be received by a given Runtime Resource PC, or if there is the likelihood of large peaks in demand. Consideration should be given to whether the Runtime Resources which receive the requests are able to receive multiple requests from a technical perspective. This is dictated by: 
o Whether the nature of the request requires a new session to be created for each request received. This is further affected by the run mode of the sessions being created; as well as any other work that the Runtime Resource may be responsible for. 
o Whether the platform licensing caters for the volumes of sessions that may be required at periods of maximum demand. 

Subject to requirements, the web service interface can be designed such that both the requirement for new sessions to be created and the subsequent impact on the license can be both predicted and controlled. 
